docs: readability tweaks to "Install" page (#2419)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/install/install.md

hidechildren: false # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
---

Keptn must be installed and integrated
into each Kubernetes cluster you want to monitor.

> Keptn v.0.9.0 and later is installed using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn v0.9.0 and later is installed using
```

hidechildren: false # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
---

Keptn must be installed and integrated
into each Kubernetes cluster you want to monitor.

> Keptn v.0.9.0 and later is packaged as

Reviewer 2: I would stick to installed, packaged is not the right word here

Author: Thanks!  I reverted it to "installed using"

## Basic installation

Keptn is installed onto an existing Kubernetes cluster

> using an umbrella Helm Chart and standard
> [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/cheatsheet/)
> commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a Helm Chart and standard
[Helm commands](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/cheatsheet/).
```

Some helpful hints:

* Use the `--version <version>` flag on the

>   `helm upgrade --install` command line to specify a Keptn version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `helm upgrade --install` command to specify a Keptn version
```

>   other than the latest.

Reviewer 3: let's add an example of a `helm upgrade --install` with the `--version` flag being used

Author: done

Some helpful hints:

* Use the `--version <version>` flag on the
  `helm upgrade --install` command to install a Keptn version
  other than the latest.
  For example,

  ```shell
  helm upgrade --install keptn keptn/keptn \

>    --version version klt-v0.8.2 \

Reviewer 3: For the --version flag, we need to provide the chart version number, which is not necessarily the same as the version of keptn (this is a bit confusing in helm). E.g. this would be the output of the `helm search repo keptn` command, where keptn v0.9.0 is installed via chart verison 0.3.0:

```
NAME                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION                                       
keptn/keptn                     0.3.0           v0.9.0          A Helm chart for Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit, a set...
keptn/keptn-cert-manager        0.2.0           v1.2.0          A Helm chart for Keptn Certificate Manager, a s...
keptn/keptn-lifecycle-operator  0.1.0           v0.8.3          A Helm chart for Keptn Lifecycle Operator, a su...
keptn/keptn-metrics-operator    0.1.0           v0.8.3          A Helm chart for Keptn Metrics Operator, a subp...
keptn/common                    0.1.0                           A Helm chart containing common templates for Keptn
keptn/klt                       0.2.6           v0.8.2          A Helm chart for Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit, a set...
```

```suggestion
   --version 0.3.0 \
```

Author: Ooh, this is ugly and definitely worthy of a bit of prose as well!  So they should use the chart version for keptn/keptn, right?  They don't need to worry about he fact that the subcharts have different versions?

But your sample only shows the keptn/keptn for the current "APP VERSION" (v0.9.0), right?  And my example showed how to install v.0.8.2, so is that the keptn/klt line, where the chart version is 0.2.6?

And, don't I need this information before I install Keptn, so would this be available on my system?

Maybe I should omit the sample output for the `helm search repo keptn` command and, instead, just create a little table that. shows the chart version for the previous releases that they can install rather than latest?  Either way, we're going to need to manually update this info for each release, right?

Reviewer 3: yes, if all components of keptn should be installed, then the chart version 0.3.0 of `keptn/keptn` should be used. And yes, for installing keptn 0.8.2, that would be `keptn/klt`, chart version v0.2.6. The reason the search repo output only shows the latest version is because previously we used `keptn/klt` for the chart name, but now switched to `keptn/keptn`, so right now there is only one version of each chart. with future releases the command should show all available versions though.
As for the table, I would not add that as this would require constant maintenance whenever we release. I think it should be sufficient to refer to the `helm repo search` command to list all available versions, as this should be a well known concept for anyone using helm

Author: So are we saying that, right now, it's not possible to specify a release before 0.9.0 here?  Because of the switch to umbrella charts and all?

So you say "if all components of keptn should be installed"...  So are there times when I could specify, say, the chart version for and earlier release of the metrics-operator?  But then what version of cert-manager would I get or would I need to somehow specify two components?

And, if I am getting ready to install Keptn for the first time, would the `helm search repo keptn` command return anything?  I guess maybe this queries our official repo and not what is installed on your system?

Reviewer 3: Yes, due to the switch to umbrella charts there is only 0.9.0 that can be installed this way.

It seems like the question about selecting which components should be installed is already answered in this PR.

The `helm search repo keptn` command will return something as soon as the `helm repo add` command has been executed, so yes, this queries the repo and not what is installed on your system

Author: So do we just say that it is now impossible to install anything before 0.9.0 or tell them to check the docs from earlier versions for the install line?  Of course, we weren't as explicit there -- would `--version 0.8.2` work with the install guide that references klt/klt?

Reviewer 3: i'd say let's tell them to check the docs for earlier versions. Version 0.8.2 would be installed via `keptn/klt --version 0.2.6`

Author: After discussion in stand-up, I get it.  I added a very brief note to cover this.

   -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --create-namespace --wait
  ```

  * Use the following command sequence to see a list of available versions:

    ```shell

>     helm repo update

Reviewer 3: it seems like the command to add the keptn helm repo got lost, so let's add this here before the `helm repo update`:

```
helm repo add keptn https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
```

without this the charts won't be able to be installed

Author: Okay, I only showed the revised `helm update` command, not the full sequence since that is just a few lines above.  But I can put the whole sequence in.

Author: done

    helm search repo keptn
    ```

* If you modify the `values.yaml` file for the umbrella chart
  and/or the component sub-charts,

>   apply the modified configuration with the `values - values.yaml` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  apply the modified configuration with the `--values <values-filename>` flag.
```

Author: Whoops, I had done some of this manually so i implemented the rest manually.  Done.

  For example, if you created a `my.values.yaml`
  to exclude the `lifecycle-operator` from your cluster
  and created a `metrics.values.yaml` to modify the configuration
  of the `metrics-operator`, the command is:

  ```shell
  helm upgrade --install keptn keptn/keptn \
   --values my.values.yaml --values metrics.values.yaml \
   -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --create-namespace --wait
  ```

  Note that you can specify multiple `--values` options in one command.
  The precedence is from right to left.

* To view which Keptn components are installed in your cluster
  and verify that they are the correct ones,
  run the following command:

  ```shell
  kubectl get pods -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system
  ```

## Modify Helm configuration options

To modify the Keptn configuration,
you must modify the appropriate `values.yaml` file.
Values can be modified before the installation
or can be modified and reapplied after the initial installation.

> This is useful if you do not want to install all components,
> if you need to modify the configuration in some way,
> such as to turn verbose logging on or off.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to add any example here. The values files are always the way to configure software that is managed by helm. Any Keptn specific info here will only get outdated at some point.
```suggestion
```

Author: I don't understand your comment.  Yes, always modify config using the values.yaml files, but I might need to modify the values.yaml file for metrics-operator or lifecycle-operator, say to use a different port for something or to change the resource limitations.  Now that I'm lookng at the values.yaml files, I don't actually see what you turn verbose logging on but I thought that was in some values.yaml file.  But are you saying that modifying the parameters of the componet subcharts is not something people should do?  If it's something they can do, shouldn't we give some examples of configuration changes that are someone common?

And yes, the documenation will need constant maintenance.  We're trying to minimize the effort here by avoiding redundancy but nothing we write is guaranteed to be true in perpetuity, is it?

To modify configuration options,
download a copy of the appropriate `values.yaml` file
(see the table in the
[Control what components are installed](#control-what-components-are-installed)
section below).

> Edit the local copy of that `value.yaml` file to make the modifications,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the local copy of that `values.yaml` file to make the modifications,
```

## Modify Helm configuration options

To modify the Keptn configuration,

> you must modify the appropriate Helm Chart.

Reviewer 2: you never modify helm chart, only values

Author: Whoops -- made it `values.yaml` then

Helm chart values can be modified before the installation
or can be modified and reapplied after the initial installation.
This is useful if you do not want to install all components,

> if you need to change the size of the installation,

Reviewer 2: what is size of installation ?

Author: It was a question that came up once.  I don't want to delay this PR while I chase it so just deleted that line for now.

or if you want to turn verbose logging on or off.

To modify configuration options,
download a copy of the appropriate `values.yaml` file
(see the table in the
[Control what components are installed](#control-what-components-are-installed)
section below).
Edit the local copy of that `value.yaml` file to make the modifications,
and use the modified file to install Keptn:

1. Download the `values.yaml` file:

   ```shell
   helm get values RELEASE_NAME [flags] > values.yaml
   ```

1. Edit your local copy to modify the appropriate parameters.
   The `README` file for each component
   (which is linked to the text in the "Components" column in the table)
   describes each parameter in the `values.yaml` file.

1. Upgrade your Keptn installation to use the new configuration

>    by adding the following string to your `helm upgrade` command line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   by adding the following string to your `helm upgrade` command:
```

--set key1=value1,key2=value2,....
```

## Control what components are installed

Keptn presents a toolkit composed of multiple operators,
each of which enables a specific use-case.

> Keptn v.0.9 and later releases use an umbrella chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn v0.9.0 and later releases use an umbrella Helm chart
```

> with separate charts for each operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with separate sub-charts for each operator.
```

The installation command is always the same;

> only the content of the `value.yaml` file(s) changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only the content of the `values.yaml` file(s) changes:
```

* Use the Keptn umbrella `values.yaml` file to specify which components are installed
  and to set some global configuration parameters for Keptn
* Each component has its own `values.yaml` file

>   where you set configuration parameters that are specific to that component.

Reviewer: I don't think this is how users will generally use our chart. They will instead use a single values file to configure everything. I think we should change this info.

Author: After discussion in stand-up, I understand and have corrected the text.

Conversely, you can exclude some components when you install Keptn
then later add them in.

### Enable Keptn Lifecycle Operator (Observability and/or Release Lifecycle Management)

If you only want to run the Keptn Observability
and/or Release Lifecycle Management use-cases in your cluster,
you do not need to install the Keptn Metrics Operator.

> To disable it, set the `metricsOperator` parameter
> in the `keptn/values.yaml` file to `disabled` as in the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable it, set the `metricsOperator.enabled` value
to `false` as in the following:
```

{{< embed path="/docs/content/en/docs/install/assets/values-only-lifecycle.yaml" >}}

Note that, if you want to run pre- and/or post-deployment
[evaluations](../implementing/evaluations.md)
as part of the Release Lifecycle Management use-case,
you need to run the Keptn Metrics Operator.

You must also enable Keptn for each
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/)
on which you want to run either
the Observability or Release Lifecycle Management use-case.
This is because Keptn communicates with the Kubernetes scheduling mechanism
for tasks such as enforcing checks natively,
stopping a deployment from proceeding when criteria are not met,
doing post-deployment evaluations
and tracing all activities of all deployment
[workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
on the cluster.

To enable Keptn in your namespace,
annotate the appropriate `Namespace` resource(s).
For example, for the `simplenode-dev` namespace,
the annotation looks like this:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: this yaml could be extracted into a standalone file.

Author: I don't understand your comment here.

Reviewer 2: you should create a separate yaml file with this content and use `embed path` to reference it

Author: Sorry, it was changed on my local branch and not yet pushed.  It's gone now.

you are ready to
[Integrate Keptn with your applications](../implementing/integrate.md).

For more information about implementing Observability, see the
[Observability User Guide](../implementing/otel.md).

> For more information about implementing Keptn Release Management, see the

Reviewer 2: It's not a release management, it's tasks and evaluations

### Disable Keptn Certificate Manager (Certificates)

If you wish to use your own custom certificate manager,
you can disable the Keptn `cert-manager` by using the

> `--set " certificateManager.enabled=false"` argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--set "certificateManager.enabled=false"` argument
```
